# Transit-Route-Recommendation-System

With the increased urbanization, traffic congestion in Chennai, India has become a major problem. Therefore, more people must utilize the extensive public transit system instead of relying on private vehicles or cab services. However, one of the main factors that discourage people from using public transit is overcrowding, especially during peak hours. The Union Transport Ministry reported that Chennai had the most crowded buses in India with 1300 passengers per bus in each direction per day. During peak hours, in some routes, buses are filled with passengers twice the maximum capacity of the vehicle. Therefore, there is a need to provide the passengers with more information about the set of optimal routes which are better in terms of crowding and travel time as a whole. Several studies have shown that the usage of public transportation will be better if people are given real-time updates about various transit factors that affect the comfort of their journey. There is a need to estimate the crowding levels in buses and route-level travel time in a city with no Automatic Passenger Counting machines and limited GPS devices. This study aims to provide a detailed methodology for estimating and predicting crowding, estimating and predicting travel time using ETM (Electronic Ticketing Machine) data and GPS data. This study also aims to provide a multi-objective optimization algorithm to minimize crowded duration and travel time.

A novel multi-objective optimization algorithm, implemented in Python3 is in the Chapter 7 Optimization folder.
